.. SeisSol documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Nov  7 15:42:26 2018.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

================
SeisSol Cookbook
================

This documentation is a collection of useful simulation examples to help users build dynamic rupture model from the scratch with little efforts. Each example is demonstrated carefully with 1) geometry building, 2) parameter setup,  and 3) result visualization. Users are suggested to repeat each example in order to get a comprehensive idea of how to set up dynamic simulation with SeisSol. The updates of source software and news of SeisSol should be posted in SeisSol GitHub (https://github.com/SeisSol/SeisSol) or Readdocs(https://seissol.readthedocs.io/en/latest)

Overview of SeisSol:

The software package SeisSol (http://www.seissol.org/) allows for
realistic simulations of the three-dimensional seismic wave field
propagating in complex Earth structures generated by a finite dynamic
earthquake source governed by a constitutive law that describes the
relationship between fault stress and slip along a geometrically complex
fault. SeisSol is a high-order accurate *Discontinuous Galerkin Finite
Element* solver, based on the ADER-DG method presented
in:raw-latex:`\citep{kaser2006}`, enabling precise modelling of on-fault
frictional failure coupled to seismic waves travelling over large
distances in terms of propagated wavelengths with minimal dispersion
errors, whereas it is intrinsically dissipative and removes frequencies
unresolved by the mesh without affecting longer and physically
meaningful wavelengths.

The software has recently proven to be highly scalable on current and
future HPC infrastructure. It reached multi-petaflop/s performance on
some of the largest supercomputers worldwide, and was a Gordon Bell
prize finalist application 2014 (Breuer et al., 2014; Heinecke et al.,
2014) in a pioneering simulation of the 1992 M7.2 Landers earthquake.
High detail rupture evolution and synthetic ground shaking in the
engineering frequency band (0-10 Hz) were modeled on a non-planar
earthquake fault structure. In early 2017, SeisSol performed the longest
and largest dynamic rupture scenario to date, enabled by local time
stepping, resolving the 2004
Sumatra-Andaman earthquake including complex splay fault geometries (Uphoff et al. 2017). The
paper won the prestigous “Best Paper Award” of the International
Supercomputing Conference (SC17). Recently, large scale dynamic rupture
forward scenarios of the 1994 Northridge earthquake and the
Husavik-­Flatey­ fault system in Northern Iceland have been developed
shedding light on pressing questions of fault mechanics (Heinecke et
al., 2014; Gabriel et al., 2014; Wollherr et al., 2015; Ulrich et al.,
2016, Weingärtner et al., 2016). SeisSol results imply that
acknowledging geometrical complexity, realistic fault properties and
velocity models affect not only earthquake source dynamics but the
synthetic ground shaking crucially. The software package is available to
the community as an open source distribution
(`www.github.com/SeisSol/SeisSol <www.github.com/SeisSol/SeisSol>`__).

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Introduction

  introduction
  overview

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Examples

  tpv5
  tpv6
  tpv12
  tpv13
  tpv16
  tpv24
  tpv29
  tpv104
  pointsource
  kinematic
  
.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Acknowledgements

  acknowledge
  
.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2
  :caption: Copyrights

  copyrights
