Introduction
============

The software package SeisSol (http://www.seissol.org/) allows for
realistic simulations of the three-dimensional seismic wave field
propagating in complex Earth structures generated by a finite dynamic
earthquake source governed by a constitutive law that describes the
relationship between fault stress and slip along a geometrically complex
fault. SeisSol is a high-order accurate *Discontinuous Galerkin Finite
Element* solver, based on the ADER-DG method presented
in:raw-latex:`\citep{kaser2006}`, enabling precise modelling of on-fault
frictional failure coupled to seismic waves travelling over large
distances in terms of propagated wavelengths with minimal dispersion
errors, whereas it is intrinsically dissipative and removes frequencies
unresolved by the mesh without affecting longer and physically
meaningful wavelengths.

The software has recently proven to be highly scalable on current and
future HPC infrastructure. It reached multi-petaflop/s performance on
some of the largest supercomputers worldwide, and was a Gordon Bell
prize finalist application 2014 (Breuer et al., 2014; Heinecke et al.,
2014) in a pioneering simulation of the 1992 M7.2 Landers earthquake.
High detail rupture evolution and synthetic ground shaking in the
engineering frequency band (0-10 Hz) were modeled on a non-planar
earthquake fault structure. In early 2017, SeisSol performed the longest
and largest dynamic rupture scenario to date, enabled by local time
stepping :raw-latex:`\citep{uphoff2017}`, resolving the 2004
Sumatra-Andaman earthquake including complex splay fault geometries. The
paper won the prestigous “Best Paper Award” of the International
Supercomputing Conference (SC17). Recently, large scale dynamic rupture
forward scenarios of the 1994 Northridge earthquake and the
Husavik-­Flatey­ fault system in Northern Iceland have been developed
shedding light on pressing questions of fault mechanics (Heinecke et
al., 2014; Gabriel et al., 2014; Wollherr et al., 2015; Ulrich et al.,
2016, Weingärtner et al., 2016). SeisSol results imply that
acknowledging geometrical complexity, realistic fault properties and
velocity models affect not only earthquake source dynamics but the
synthetic ground shaking crucially. The software package is available to
the community as an open source distribution
(`www.github.com/SeisSol/SeisSol <www.github.com/SeisSol/SeisSol>`__).

**This documentation is a collection of useful dynamic simulation
examples to help users build models from the scratch with little
efforts**. Each example is demonstrated carefully with geometry
building, parameter setup and result visualization. Users are suggested
to repeat each example in order to get a comprehensive idea of how to
set up dynamic simulation models with SeisSol. The updates of source
software and news of SeisSol should be posted in SeisSol GitHub (https://github.com/SeisSol/SeisSol) or Readdocs (https://seissol.readthedocs.io/en/latest).

References
~~~~~~~~~~

Breuer, A., A. Heinecke, and M. Bader (2016), Petascale Local Time Stepping for the ADER-DG Finite Element Method, paper presented at 2016 IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), 23-27 May 2016. DOI: 10.1109/IPDPS.2016.109

Heinecke, A., et al. (2014), Petascale High Order Dynamic Rupture Earthquake Simulations on Heterogeneous Supercomputers, paper presented at SC '14: Proceedings of the International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, 16-21 Nov. 2014, doi:10.1109/SC.2014.6.

Käser, M., and M. Dumbser (2006), An arbitrary high-order discontinuous Galerkin method for elastic waves on unstructured meshes - I. The two-dimensional isotropic case with external source terms, Geophys. J. Int., 166(2), 855-877, doi:10.1111/j.1365-246X.2006.03051.x.

Uphoff, C., S. Rettenberger, M. Bader, E. H. Madden, T. Ulrich, S. Wollherr, and A.-A. Gabriel (2017), Extreme scale multi-physics simulations of the tsunamigenic 2004 sumatra megathrust earthquake, in Proceedings of the International Conference for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis, edited, pp. 1-16, ACM, Denver, Colorado, doi:10.1145/3126908.3126948.


